LEGAL STUFF
===========

Copyright © 2024 Michael A. Peters for the Platillo Font.

See GUST-FONT-LICENSE.txt and LPPL.txt that should have accompanied this file.


Copyright, Design Patents, Typefaces, Fonts, and Font Families
--------------------------------------------------------------

I am no lawyer, not even a law school dropout, but this is my understanding of
intellectual property laws with respect to typography in the United States.

A ‘typeface’ can be seen as the artistic design concept of glyphs designed that
is a visually recognizable design concept. This includes variations in the
design concept by different type designers as long as they are easy to visually
recognize as variations of each other. The digital font families ‘Helvetica’,
‘Nimbus Sans L’, and ‘TeX Gyre Heros’ are all visually recognizable as the same
artistic design concept and thus are all considered to be the same typeface.

My understanding is that in the United States, a typeface design is not subject
to copyright law *however* if the typeface design is novel, it is possible that
the type designer filed for a design patent that gives legal protection to the
typeface. My understanding is that design patents last about 15 years.

A ‘font family’ is a specific subset of a typeface that often but not always
includes stylistic variations intended to be used together for typographical
purposes, such the common ‘Upright Roman’, ‘Bold’, ‘Italic’, and ‘Bold-Italic’
stylistic variations that are commonly used even in basic Latin-letter based
typography.

A ‘font’ is a specific stylistic variation within the font family, usually but
not always with all of its glyphs contained in a single-file. Historically when
font files were 8-bit and could only contain 256 glyphs, more advanced fonts
often needed multiple font files for the font.

A font is computer code and is subject to copyright protection in the United
States.

According to Wikipedia (2024 September 6, “[Intellectual property protection of
typefaces](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intellectual_property_protection_of_typefaces)”)
the code in a font file must be hand-entered rather than generated by a
graphics program for a copyright to apply in the United States. __I BELIEVE
WIKIPEDIA IS WRONG__.

As I recall, the U.S. Copyright office did send out letters to that effect, but
only congress makes laws, the copyright office does not. From what I recall,
the copyright office misunderstood the law *and* misunderstood how the code
behind vector fonts work. It was quickly demonstrated that any such distinction
between hand-entered code and code created by a graphics program was superfluous
and intellectual property lawyers advised against trying to claim that the code
in a font file had no copyright protection if the glyphs were generated with a
graphics program. My understanding is that the Copyright office stopped sending
out such notices to those registering font copyrights.

The glyphs in this font, at least those contributed by me, are in fact hand
coded using a text editor and a calculator so either way, the code for the
glyphs in this font do fall under copyright protection.


Picture Glyphs
--------------

Everything I have read about *why* copyright does not apply to a typeface is
given in the context of the utilitarian nature of letters.

If I draw a piece of vector art on a 1000 by 1000 canvas using SVG or PostScript
or any other vector art specification, that vector art is protected by copyright
in the United States *even if I do not apply for such protection*.

It seems very unlikely to me that such protection vanishes just because I put
the code for the art into a font file.

Some picture glyphs are *clearly* utilitarian in nature. Examples of this would
include the various box-drawing glyphs and block glyphs. Other examples include
common pictographs—a pictorial symbol used to communicate something without
language specific words, such as a drawing of a person in a wheelchair to
indicate wheelchair accessibility (the Unicode code-point `U+267F` often has
this pictograph, although in some fonts, `U+267F` is drawn such that it is not
suitable for that purpose, e.g. as a wheelchair racer). An outline human with
outstretched arms inside a circle is often used as a pictograph to indicate
general accessibility (AFAIK no Unicode code-point exists for that, one should).

Some picture glyphs however are not *clearly* utilitarian and one should not
make the mistake of assuming that the existence of a Unicode code-point that the
picture glyph could be a match for indicates the picture glyph is utilitarian
*even if another picture glyph that is utilitarian matches the same code-point*.

An artistic drawing of a cactus plant does not become a utilitarian pictograph
just because some font included it at `U+1F335`.

When determining whether or not a non-letter glyph in a typeface falls under
copyright protection, I believe some intelligence is required.

Designs that are clearly utilitarian in nature such as box-drawing glyphs or
designs that are clearly associated with well-understood common pictographs
I suspect do not have copyright protection in the United States but designs
that are *not* clearly associated with well-understood common pictographs quite
possibly do have copyright protection in the United States even if the designer
did not file for a design patent or a copyright.

Not only am I not a lawyer, but I did not even sleep at a Holiday Inn Express
last night. Just like I believe the Wikipedia article was wrong, my own
understanding presented above could have serious flaws. Please consult a lawyer
if you have actual legal questions about how intellectual property rights apply
to typefaces and fonts.


Platillo Font
-------------

The code that generates glyphs in the Platillo font is licensed under the terms
of the `GUST-FONT-LICENSE.txt` and `LPPL.txt` that should have accompanied this
file.

Most glyphs in the Platillo font are either too generic, too utilitarian, or
both for a copyright to apply to the visual result of the code.

Any glyphs that I created that could potentially have an applicable copyright
beyond the context of the code, I consider to be a design in the public domain.

However please note that some picture glyphs are recreations of other typeface
designs and thus *possibly* could have an applicable copyright that is owned by
someone else. I do not think so, but again, I am not a lawyer.

The cases where I suspect it is most likely that an issue exists follow.


Zapf Dingbats
-------------

__NOTE:__ I have not yet finished re-drawing these glyphs.

Some glyphs in this font are heavily based upon the dingbats originally drawn by
Hermann Zapf in 1977 from which a subset were included in the 8-bit PostScript
font ‘ITC Zapf Dingbats’. I believe the font was created by Adobe even though
the typeface itself is ITC and predates Adobe PostScript fonts.

Most glyphs in that font are *probably* too generic for a visual claim on
copyright to apply, but some of them are not too generic for such a claim to
quite possibly have legal merit.

A free clone of the 8-bit PostScript font ‘ITC Zapf Dingbats’ was created by URW
for the ‘Ghostscript’ project and is included in TeXLive 2024 at

    texmf-dist/fonts/type1/urw/zapfding/uzdr.pfb

In TeXLive 2024 (and on CTAN) it is licensed under the GPLv2. See the file
`COPYING` at https://ctan.org/tex-archive/fonts/urw/base35

To draw my glyphs based on the Zapf Dingbats glyphs, I specifically did not look
at the code of either the Adobe version of the font or the URW version of the
font. I created the TeX file `ZapfDingbats.tex` using the LaTeX CTAN `pifont`
package to create a visual representation of the glyphs for me to refer to when
writing my own SVG code to generate similar (although visually distinguishable
in many cases) glyphs. Not a single line of code (glyph generating or otherwise)
was copied. Please note that that at least through the LaTeX `pifont` package,
the glyphs at `0x80` through `0x8D` are not available. It appears they are not
even in the URW version of the font, at least not as packaged for CTAN.

Given that financially free versions of the glyphs are *already* widely
available and given that these glyphs are so important to digital typography and
the Internet that code-points for them were specifically assigned in Unicode
version 1.0 (1991), it is my *opinion* that the *visual representation* of the
specific Zapf Dingbat glyphs in the 8-bit PostScript font ‘ITC Zapf Dingbats’ is
important enough to public utility that they do belong to the public.


Webdings and Wingdings
----------------------

__NOTE:__ I have not yet finished re-drawing these glyphs.

Many of the glyphs in Webdings and Wingdings are *in my opinion* too generic for
a copyright to apply to the visual representation, but many are not.

Microsoft apparently did apply for design patents on the fonts but those only
last for fifteen years and have now expired.

The 8-bit Webdings glyph `0x23` (`U+1F572`) is an example of a glyph that I
consider to have utilitarian purpose as a well-understood pictograph and does
not have copyright protection on the visual design itself.

The 8-bit WebDings glyph `0x22` (`U+1F578`) is an example of a glyph that I
__do not__ consider to have utilitarian purpose as a well-understood pictograph
*however* I do feel its design is too generic for a copyright to apply.

The 8-bit WebDings glyph `0x4B` (`U+1F6E3`) is an example of a glyph that I
__do not__ consider to have utilitarian purpose *and* I __do not__ consider
the design to be too generic for a copyright to apply, so to be on the safe
side, that glyph was redrawn to be different from the original Webdings glyph.

All code for generating the glyphs will be freshly created for the Platillo
font.

I have to admit, it is *very* tempting to copy the vector code from Webdings
position `0x23` (`U+1F572`) just to be a smartass...unfortunately, the people
at Microsoft Legal may not have a sense of humor.

